[1/N] Tracing doc overhaul (#14073)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/docs/tracing/sdk/search.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Query Traces
---

import { APILink } from "@site/src/components/APILink";
import { Card, CardGroup, SmallLogoCard } from "@site/src/components/Card";
import TOCInline from "@theme/TOCInline";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

> # Query Traces

Author: This page is a migration of https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/pull/14033

This page describes how to query traces logged to MLflow.

> ## Client vs Fluent API

Reviewer: Standard vs Client APIs? If we're removing the fluent term from the main page, might as well keep it consistent.

Author: Yea that makes sense. Not sure if pandas one is "standard"; maybe "high-level" is slightly more accurate.

MLflow provides two APIs for searching and retrieving traces:

- **<APILink fn="mlflow.client.MlflowClient.search_traces">`MlflowClient.search_traces()`</APILink>**: Query traces using experiment IDs, filter strings, and other parameters. This API returns **a list of <APILink fn="mlflow.entities.Trace">`Trace`</APILink> objects** that matches with the given search criteria.

> - **<APILink fn="mlflow.search_traces" />**: A higher-level fluent API that supports same filtering functionalities, but returns a pre-formatted **Pandas DataFrame**, with each row representing a trace, aiding with building an evaluation dataset for [MLflow LLM Evaluation](llms/llm-evaluate).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **<APILink fn="mlflow.search_traces" />**: A higher-level API that supports the same filtering functionalities as the client APIs, but instead returns a pre-formatted **Pandas DataFrame** with each row representing a trace, simplifying the process of creating an evaluation dataset for [MLflow LLM Evaluation](llms/llm-evaluate).
```

```

### Filter Traces by Tags

Filter traces by specific tag values using `tag.[tag name]`:

```python
client.search_traces(
    experiment_ids=experiment_ids,
    filter_string="tag.person = 'Tom'",
)
# [Trace #1]
```

The timestamp is recorded as a UNIX timestamp in milliseconds.

### Filter Traces by Status

Search for traces by their status:

```python
client.search_traces(
    experiment_ids=experiment_ids,
    filter_string="trace.status = 'OK'",
)
# [Trace #1, Trace #2]
```

Trace status must be one of `["OK", "ERROR", "IN_PROGRESS"]`.

### Combine Multiple Conditions

The `filter_string` DSL allows you to combine multiple filters together by using `AND`.

```python
client.search_traces(
    experiment_ids=experiment_ids,
    filter_string=f"attributes.status = 'OK' AND attributes.timestamp > {morning_time}",
)
# [Trace #2]
```

## Order Traces

The `order_by` argument allows you to sort traces based on one or more fields. Each `order_by` clause follows the format `[attribute name] [ASC or DESC]`.

```python
client.search_traces(
    experiment_ids=experiment_ids,
    order_by=["timestamp DESC"],
)
# [Trace #3, Trace #2, Trace #1]
```

## Extract Specific Fields

> The fluent API <APILink fn="mlflow.search_traces" /> allows you to extract specific fields from spans with `extract_fields` argument. The span fields can be specifie in the format of `span_name.[inputs|outputs]` or `span_name.[inputs|outputs].field_name`:

Reviewer: might want to remove the 'fluent' term here and just provide the API link name
